Updating Native Modules Documentation (#2261)
facebook/react-native-website: docs/native-modules-ios.md

---
id: native-modules-ios
title: iOS Native Modules
---

Welcome to Native Modules for iOS. Please start by reading the [Native Modules Intro](native-modules-intro) for an intro to what native modules are.

## Create a Calendar Native Module

> In the following guide you will create a native module, `CalendarModule`, that will allow you to access Apple's calendar APIs from Javascript. By the end you will be able to call `CalendarModule.createCalendarEvent(‘Dinner Party’, ‘My House’);` from JavaScript, invoking a native method that creates a calendar event.

Reviewer: Apostrophe characters are incorrect in the code here (which will lead to syntax errors). 

The typography correct version has been used (`‘` and `’`) instead of simple `'`.

Author: updated

import { NativeModules, Button } from 'react-native';

const NewModuleButton = () => {
  const onPress = () => {
    console.log('We will invoke the native module here!');
  };

  return (
    <Button
      title="Click to invoke your native module!"
      color="#841584"
      onPress={onPress}
    />
  );
};

export default NewModuleButton;
```

In order to access your native module from Javascript you need to first import `NativeNodules` from React Native:

```jsx
import { NativeModules } from 'react-native';
```

You can then access the `CalendarModule` native module off of `NativeModules`.

```jsx
const { CalendarModule } = NativeModules;
```

Now that you have the CalendarModule native module available, you can invoke your native method `createCalendarEvent`. Below it is added to the `onPress` method in `NewModuleButton`:

```jsx
const onPress = () => {
  CalendarModule.createCalendarEvent('testName', 'testLocation');
};
```

The final step is to rebuild the React Native app so that you can have the latest native code (with your new native module!) available. In your command line, where the react native application is located, run the following :

```jsx

> react-native run-ios

Reviewer: We should not recommend using global CLI, please convert this line to `npx react-native run-ios` and change the code block language from `jsx` to `shell`.

Author: done

```

### Building as You Iterate

> As you work through these guides and iterate on your native module, you will need to do a native rebuild of your application to access your most recent changes from Javascript. This is because the code that you are writing sits within the native part of your application. While React Native’s metro bundler can watch for changes in Javascript and rebuild JS bundle on the fly for you, it will not do so for native code. So if you want to test your latest native changes you need to rebuild by using the `react-native run-ios` command.

Reviewer: Again, please change the run command to `npx react-native run-ios`.

Author: done

* 2. String location: A string representing the location of the event
*/
import { NativeModules } from 'react-native';
const { CalendarModule } = NativeModules
interface CalendarInterface {
   createCalendarEvent(name: string, location: string): void;
}
export default CalendarModule as CalendarInterface;
```

In your other Javascript files you can access the native module and invoke its method like this:

```jsx
import NativeCalendarModule from './NativeCalendarModule';
NativeCalendarModule.createCalendarEvent(‘foo’, ‘bar’);
```

> Note this assumes that the place you are importing `CalendarModule` is in the same hierarchy as `CalendarModule.js`. Please update the relative import as necessary.

### Argument Types

When a native module method is invoked in Javascript, React Native converts the arguments from JS objects to their Objective-C/Swift object analogues. So for example, if your Objective-C Native Module method accepts a NSNumber, in JS you need to call the method with a number. React Native will handle the conversion for you. Below is a list of the argument types supported for native module methods and the JavaScript equivalents they map to.

> - string -> NSString \*

Reviewer: Can you convert this list into the table? I think this will improve the readability.

Also what's the purpose of asterisk at the end of some entries?

Author: Updated to tables. Not sure where that asterisk came from, I had copied over from the original docs.

Reviewer: It looks better, thank you! 

One more question, about for example `NSArray` - there are two very similar rows for this type, can this be simplified by putting in JS column `?Array | Array` or just `?Array`? (This hint might be wrong since I'm not that experienced with RN conversions)

<img width="607" alt="Screenshot 2020-11-28 145722" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/719641/100517309-0ab7d600-318a-11eb-94f7-3c4c8c175763.png">

Author: @Simek followed up with the table params here: https://github.com/facebook/react-native-website/pull/2373

### Setup

To get started, open up the iOS project within your React Native application in Xcode. You can find your iOS project here within a React Native app:

<figure>
  <img src="/docs/assets/native-modules-ios-open-project.png" width="500" alt="Image of opening up an iOS project within a React Native app inside of xCode." />
  <figcaption>Image of where you can find your iOS project</figcaption>
</figure>

We recommend using Xcode to write your native code. Xcode is built for iOS development, and using it will help you to quickly resolve smaller errors like code syntax.

### Create Custom Native Module Files

The first step is to create our main custom native module header and implementation files. Create a new file called `RCTCalendarModule.h`

<figure>
  <img src="/docs/assets/native-modules-ios-open-project.png" width="500" alt="Image of creating a class called  RCTCalendarModule.h." />
  <figcaption>Image of creating a custom native module file within the same folder as AppDelegate</figcaption>
</figure>

and add the following to it:

```objectivec
//  RCTCalendarModule.h
#import <React/RCTBridgeModule.h>
@interface RCTCalendarModule : NSObject <RCTBridgeModule>
@end

```

> You can use any name that fits the native module you are building. Name the interface `RCTCalendarModule` since you are creating a calendar native module. Since ObjC does not have namespaces like Java or C++, convention is to prepend the interface name with a substring like RCT (an abbreviation or React).

Reviewer 2: Might be a good idea to indicate that the substring is application-specific.

> As you can see below, the CalendarModule interface implements the `RCTBridgeModule` protocol. A native module is an Objective-C class that implements the `RCTBridgeModule` protocol.

Author: Forgot to respond, but yes nice call I updated this!

```objectivec
// RCTCalendarModule.m
#import "RCTCalendarModule.h"

@implementation RCTCalendarModule

// To export a module named RCTCalendarModule
RCT_EXPORT_MODULE();

@end

```

### Module Name

For now, all your `CalenderModule.m` native module class does is include a `RCT_EXPORT_MODULE()` macro which exports and registers the native module class with React Native. It also specifies the name of the native module. Similar to Android’s `getName` method, the`RCT_EXPORT_MODULE` macro takes an optional argument that specifies the name that the module will be accessible as in your JavaScript code.

> Note that this argument is not a string literal. In the example below we pass `RCT_EXPORT_MODULE(CalendarModuleFoo)`, not `RCT_EXPORT_MODULE("CalendarModuleFoo")`.

Below `CalendarModuleFoo` is passed in, so that the module can be accessed through `ReactNative.NativeModules.CalendarModuleFoo` in JavaScript:

```objectivec
// To export a module named CalendarModuleFoo
RCT_EXPORT_MODULE();
```

The native module can then be accessed in JS like this:

```jsx

> const { CalendarModuleFoo } = ReactNative.NativeModules;

Author: Just updated!

```

> If you do not specify a name, the JavaScript module name will match the Objective-C class name. Please note, if the Objective-C class name begins with RCT, the JavaScript module name will exclude the RCT prefix.

Author: Like the suggestion but yes I don't have context on the RK prefix

```objectivec
// Without passing in a name this will export the native module name as the Objective-C class name with “RCT” removed
RCT_EXPORT_MODULE();
```

The native module can then be accessed in JS like this:

```jsx
const { CalendarModule } = ReactNative.NativeModules;
```

### Export a Native Method to Javascript

React Native will not expose any methods in a native module to JavaScript unless explicitly told to. This can be done using the `RCT_EXPORT_METHOD()` macro. Methods written in the `RCT_EXPORT_METHOD` macro are asynchronous and the return type is therefore always void. In order to pass a result from a `RCT_EXPORT_METHOD` method to JavaScript you can use callbacks or emit events (covered below). Let’s go ahead and set up a native method for our `CalendarModule` native module using the `RCT_EXPORT_METHOD` macro. We will call it `createCalendarEvent` and have it take in name and location arguments as strings for now. We will cover argument type options shortly.

```objectivec
RCT_EXPORT_METHOD(createCalendarEvent:(NSString *)name location:(NSString *)location)
{
}
```

> > Please note that the `RCT_EXPORT_METHOD` macro will not be necessary with TurboModules unless your method relies on RCT argument conversion (see argument types below). Ultimately we would like to get rid of the `RCT_EXPORT_MACRO` and therefore discourage people from using `RCTConvert`. Instead, you can do the argument conversion within the method body.

Author: Yes! I love this idea. We had chatted about adding a section at the beginning as well that noted what turbo modules is. I am happy with either/or but would love a partner to come up with the summary. Maybe something like the following as a note at the beginning of the Android/iOS docs?

The React Native team is currently working on a re-architecture of React Native called TurboModules. TurboModules will help React Native do X,Y,Z, you can read more about it here. Throughout these docs we have added notes around parts of Native Modules that will change in the TurboModules release and how you can best prepare for a smooth upgrade to TurboModules.

> > Please note that the `RCT_EXPORT_METHOD` macro will not be necessary with TurboModules unless your method relies on RCT argument conversion (see argument types below). Ultimately we would like to get rid of the `RCT_EXPORT_MACRO` and therefore discourage people from using `RCTConvert`. Instead, you can do the argument conversion within the method body.

Author: @RSNara  @rachelnabors  I think this got lost in the PR, what are your thoughts here? I can add this note on the top

### Dependency Injection

React Native will initialize any registered `RCTBridgeModules` automatically, however you may wish to instantiate your own module instances (so you may inject dependencies, for example).

You can do this by creating a class that implements the `RCTBridgeDelegate` Protocol, initializing an `RCTBridge` with the delegate as an argument and initialising a `RCTRootView` with the initialized bridge.

```objectivec
id<RCTBridgeDelegate> moduleInitialiser = [[classThatImplementsRCTBridgeDelegate alloc] init];

RCTBridge *bridge = [[RCTBridge alloc] initWithDelegate:moduleInitialiser launchOptions:nil];

RCTRootView *rootView = [[RCTRootView alloc]
                        initWithBridge:bridge
                            moduleName:kModuleName
                     initialProperties:nil];

> ```

Author: @RSNaraj just to confirm - do you want to replace the first 2 paragraphs in this section with that text?

### Exporting Swift

> Swift doesn't have support for macros so exposing it to React Native requires a bit more setup but works relatively the same. Let's say we have the same `CalendarModule` but as a Swift class:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Swift doesn't have support for macros, so exposing native modules and their methods to JavaScript inside React Native requires a bit more setup. However, it works relatively the same. Let's say we have the same `CalendarModule` but as a Swift class:
```

You can also use `RCT_EXTERN_REMAP_MODULE` and `_RCT_EXTERN_REMAP_METHOD` to alter the JavaScript name of the module or methods you are exporting. For more information see [`RCTBridgeModule`](https://github.com/facebook/react-native/blob/master/React/Base/RCTBridgeModule.h).

> Important when making third party modules: Static libraries with Swift are only supported in Xcode 9 and later. In order for the Xcode project to build when you use Swift in the iOS static library you include in the module, your main app project must contain Swift code and a bridging header itself. If your app project does not contain any Swift code, a workaround can be a single empty .swift file and an empty bridging header.

### Reserved Method Names

#### invalidate()

> Native modules can conform to the [RCTInvalidating](https://github.com/facebook/react-native/blob/0.62-stable/React/Base/RCTInvalidating.h) protocol on iOS by implementing the `invalidate` method. This method [can be invoked](https://github.com/facebook/react-native/blob/0.62-stable/ReactCommon/turbomodule/core/platform/ios/RCTTurboModuleManager.mm#L456) when the native bridge is invalidated (ie: on devmode reload). You should avoid implementing this method in general, as this mechanism exists for backwards compatibility and may be removed in the future.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Native modules can conform to the [RCTInvalidating](https://github.com/facebook/react-native/blob/0.62-stable/React/Base/RCTInvalidating.h) protocol on iOS by implementing the `invalidate` method. This method [can be invoked](https://github.com/facebook/react-native/blob/0.62-stable/ReactCommon/turbomodule/core/platform/ios/RCTTurboModuleManager.mm#L456) when the native bridge is invalidated (ie: on devmode reload). Please use this mechanism as necessary to do the required cleanup for your native module. 
```
